>> Will Sentance: So in this workshop,
we'll build out the full mental models of
prediction, model development, deployment,
so that you can be part of it.
But folk, it all starts with
predicting whether our DoorDash
refund request is legit or not,
so that we can automate that
decision rather than back and
forth chat with a customer service rep.
You've seen this maybe in your DoorDash or
in your Upwork, no, well,
[LAUGH] that's my favorite app.
Your DoorDash or your Uber Eats,
where you can no longer go and
have a chat with a customer
service rep and say, hey,
my food did not show, can I get a refund?
But instead you can say my food did not
show and automatically you get a refund.
They ain't giving that to everybody,
there's something about
the characteristics of your
request that's enabling that.
How is that automation happening?
To automate that decision rather
than back and forth chat, how?
By using a sample.
Now folk, [LAUGH] it wouldn't be [LAUGH]
a workshop without whiteboarding so
here we are back on our blackboard here,
back to our familiar blackboard,
and we are going to
get building a sample of
historic refund requests.
So that is previous refund requests made
that are gonna each have two sets of data.
One, a bunch of background
info on each request.
What sort of things might that be?
We're gonna see a bunch, some sort
of details about the request, maybe,
Kayla give me one right now, detail on
the request that might be interesting.
How many dollars?
Excellent from Kayla, exactly.
The background info on
the refund request and
an associated data set,
absolutely crucial,
the decision from the customer service rep
whether or not to have given the refund.
That's gonna be our historic data,
that's gonna be our sample.
Let's see, let's start here,
folks, here we go.
We're gonna have a sample, yay.
Of some refund requests, some historic,
refund requests that are themselves,
a subset that means some of,
a total population.
Population doesn't mean people, it means
all possible of this type of thing,
in this case, refund requests.
Population of, this is one of only
two fancy symbols we're gonna have
in all of this otherwise very math
heavy domain of machine learning,
and that is the upside down A.
Raise your hand if you've
seen this symbol before.
Hey, it just means all.
So [LAUGH] it's just a shorthand for
all, but
start using this in your slack messages.
That's right, hi, all,
people are gonna love you for that.
You're gonna love the person
who uses that symbol.
You'll be so popular, you will say,
wow, down to earth,
what a down to earth member of our team.
All possible refund requests,
including future ones, okay?
In our sample though, because that's gonna
hopefully provide us the background,
the material to maybe predict or
generalize to the rest of our population,
including future refund requests.
But we have to start with a sample.
So who should we start with?
We will start with.
>> Will Sentance: I don't
know who I can get.
Ben, here we go, Ben.
Ben, when did you do your refund request?
>> Ben: Yesterday.
>> Will Sentance: Okay,
November 24th, great.
And we know Ben is a very good,
noble DoorDash user, so
did Ben get a refund?
You bet Ben did.
Absolutely, Ben got a refund,
we'll say, yes, one.
I feel bad [LAUGH] now, [LAUGH] given
that I've- Okay, what about Joe?
What do we think of Joe?
Joe's great, but, Joe,
when did you make your refund request?
>> Joe: November 28th.
>> Will Sentance: No, this is 2024, sorry,
November 28, is that in the future.
>> Joe: November 18.
>> Will Sentance: That's in the future.
[LAUGH Okay, so, Joe made their
refund request in october 24,
there we go, that'll do.
And Joe, what do they call this month?
They call this the month of fraud.
Joe [LAUGH].
>> [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: DoorDash has your face
on that- you know where they print
out your face at the Bodega?
>> [LAUGH]
>> Joe: Yeah.
>> Will Sentance: DoorDash has,
so Joe, did you get a refund?
>> Joe: No, I did not.
>> Will Sentance: Not a chance,
[LAUGH] -1, no refund,
absolutely, there we go.
Ben, refund, yes, Joe, refund, no.
This is our sample of all
possible refund requests.
In reality,
maybe we have 100,000 in our sample,
but for now, just Ben and Joe.
Here's the goal, if we can figure out,
there's a bunch of background
information on Ben's
refund request,
the size of the refund request, but
maybe even thousands of
different pieces of detail,
pieces of data, thousands of it,
I'll do a little symbol
of the database,
they got a whole database on Ben.
Joe, [LAUGH] they got
a whole database on Joe.
There's all the background
info on Joe's refund request.
If we can work out some rules,
some instructions,
some boundaries, maybe maximums or min-,
some way of converting
the background info on
Ben's refund request to
the decision refund one
on that historic refund from Ben,
and Joe's,
the background Joe's refund
request to the decision
refund minus one,
no refund if we can work that out,
we can potentially create
some sort of set of rules.
Some way to convert,
let's call it a converter,
which I know can be spelled with an Or,
I checked, with an OR or an [LAUGH].
Some sort of converter,
then we can potentially use
that converter on the rest of
the population, meaning, and
by population, I don't mean people,
though, per say,
in the way it is here, but
the rest of the refund requests.
Meaning that when Paul in December of 24,
we're talking next month, the future,
makes a refund request,
we have a whole bunch
of background info on Paul and
their refund request and
we can potentially use that converter to
automate the decision
to make a prediction.
If the sample is representative,
has the same sort of patterns in it,
of what is associated with
a refund in background data,
what's associated with we shouldn't
give a refund in background data,
if we can find those patterns and apply
them also to convert the background data
on Paul to a decision of what would it be,
what would be the decision here Kayla?
We got a refund of what
two choices do we have?
>> Kayla: One or negative one.
>> Will Sentance: One or negative one,
right, yes or no, then perhaps we can
make a prediction of one or
negative one, that is to say yes or
no on giving the refund to Paul,
and we can do it automatically.
No customer service rep required.
People, that is it, that is it.
If we can work out a way, a set of rules,
instructions to convert the info on
each of the requests into yes or no,
one or minus one, that we have, right?
We've got two parallel data sets here,
a bunch of info on Ben,
a bunch of info on Joe.
And in parallel,
sort of corollary data sets, contiguous,
I don't know what these words mean,
[LAUGH] I think I know what they mean.
Refund, one, refund, minus one, what
the customer service rep gave, then for
our population, all possible, including
future refund requests, as long as that
sample mirrors the population, as long
as that sample is representative of
the population of all future refund
requests, the associated data of Ben,
typically with a refund one, Joe,
typically with a minus one and
100,000 of those, maybe then for Paul,
we can apply that same conversion and
make a prediction,
the right decision, one or minus one.
Maria, then I'm gonna come to you,
what info on each request
might actually matter?
And I realize I'm a spit
squished down here,
but I'm gonna put a few of them down here.
>> Maria: So the name of the person, the-
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, and
I don't know if we should be inferring
too much from name, but we could.
>> Maria: To pick up the background data,
right?
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, absolutely, yes.
I thought, what things might be
important to determine whether or
not to give a refund, the name might allow
us to find all the background information,
definitely.
I don't know if we want to use
the name to make our prediction.
Those Marias, don't get me started.
Let's put this then,
I think for now, here.
So we have,
let's put it in because it's good to
know that this could be
something we could consider,
let's have name, What other things
about the request might be useful?
I understand Maria's- yeah,
absolutely, date of the request.
What other things?
>> Maria: Amount.
>> Will Sentance: Amount, absolutely, that
feels more fair than name, [LAUGH] but
I understand absolutely that Maria
was suggesting name, as in to go and
get the information on their profile,
absolutely, yeah, anyway, excellent.
Really good stuff from Maria there,
any more you wanna add?
>> Maria: Maybe items.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, absolutely,
maybe the types of items.
Yeah, actually that's a really good one.
I've not heard that one before, and
that's a spot on one, isn't it?
Types of items, excellent from Maria,
let's have, yeah, please Joe.
>> Joe: What about description
of the refund request?
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, exactly,
the text string of the refund
request spot on, yeah.
Nick, sorry Nick.
>> Nick: Frequency of refunds, like-
>> Will Sentance: Yes,
absolutely frequency of refunds,
yes absolutely, Ben?
>> Ben: And
if he has any historical refund?
>> Will Sentance: Historical refund, maybe
historical spend, absolute daily spend,
yeah, please Jamie.
>> Jamie: How about time
since the original purchase.
>> Will Sentance: People who've
actually worked in fraud detection,
always bring this one,
I'm not saying maybe Jamie has but
that is absolutely such a great predictor
that doesn't always come to mind,
which is time since event,
time since it's happening.
Other things, Kayla,
anyone's come to mind?
>> Kayla: Which restaurant?
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
maybe delivery driver, so yeah,
these are all really good.
Yeah, these are all really good people.
There's so many great options on there.
What else we got?
We got amount, account length,
how long you've been a member, right?
How long you've used, so
let's say account length.
I always got another one in mind actually,
so I could be in years perhaps.
I always got another one in mind which is
number of accounts on that given IP, okay?
Accounts on IP, let's see, accounts on IP.
If you're trying to vote manipulate on,
if any of you have tried that,
[LAUGH] if any of you are trying
to boost any of your content,
you'll know that's a key
one that gets you spotted.